Update CREATE statement  documentation (#392)
surrealdb/docs.surrealdb.com: versioned_docs/version-1.2.x/surrealql/statements/create.mdx

# `CREATE` statement

> The `CREATE` statement can be used to add records to the database, if those records do not already exist. In the case that the record already exists, the statement will fail.

Reviewer: We can't actually insert many records with one create statement (but we can with insert) therefore I changed it to be singular here. Does that make sense?

Author: Yes! Makes sense. When updating the insert documentation I can add that there.

;
```

## Creating a Table Record

> When using the create statment the name following the `CREATE` keyword is the Table name, and following the the `:` is the record identifier. The two togther form the full [record ID](/docs/surrealdb/surrealql/datamodel/ids) which can be used to query the created data or by using the [`SELECT`](/docs/surrealdb/surrealql/statements/select) statment. The record identifier can be a string or a number. If no record identifier is specified, a random identifier will be generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the create statement the first word after `CREATE` is the table name. You also specify a record identifier using the `:` followed by a value. Ex. `CREATE:this`. The two together form the full [record ID](/docs/surrealdb/surrealql/datamodel/ids) which can be used to query the created data or by using the [`SELECT`](/docs/surrealdb/surrealql/statements/select) statement. See the [record ID](/docs/surrealdb/surrealql/datamodel/ids) page to learn more about what counts as a valid record identifier.  If no record identifier is specified, a random identifier will be generated.
```

:::note
__Note:__ You can also assign the recordID to be [randomly generated](/docs/surrealdb/surrealql/datamodel/ids#generating-record-ids) 
:::

The query below will create a new person table and also create a new record with a random ID.

```surql
-- Create a new table
CREATE person
```

```bash title="Response"
[
    {
        "id": "person:2vvgzt6m24s952yiy7x8"
    }
]
```

Alternatively, you can specify the record identifier of the record you want to create.

```surql
-- Create a new record with a specific numeric id
CREATE person:100
```

The above will create a new record with the ID `person:100`.

```bash title="Response"
[
	{
		"id": "person:100"
	}
]
```

It is also possible to specify the ID of the record you want to create using a string or any of the supported formats for [record IDs](/docs/surrealdb/surrealql/datamodel/ids).

## Adding Record Data

> When creating a record, you can specify the record data using the `SET` clause, or the `CONTENT` keyword. The `SET` clause is used to specify the record data using a list of key-value pairs, while the `CONTENT` keyword is used to specify the record data using a SurrealQL object. The `CONTENT` keyword is useful when the record data is already in the form of a SurrealQL object.

Reviewer: We really have keywords. But that has an* as well 😂 

 You can do `create create`
 but you can't do `create create set set ="set"`

> When creating a record, you can specify the record data using the `SET` clause, or the `CONTENT` keyword. The `SET` clause is used to specify the record data using a list of key-value pairs, while the `CONTENT` keyword is used to specify the record data using a SurrealQL object. The `CONTENT` keyword is useful when the record data is already in the form of a SurrealQL object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a record, you can specify the record data using the `SET` clause, or the `CONTENT` clause. The `SET` clause is used to specify the record data using a list of key-value pairs, while the `CONTENT` clause is used to specify the record data using a SurrealQL object. The `CONTENT` clause is useful when the record data is already in the form of a SurrealQL or JSON object.
```

CREATE person:100 SET name = 'Tobie', company = 'SurrealDB', skills = ['Rust', 'Go', 'JavaScript'];
```

The above will create a new record with the ID `person:100` and the specified data.

```bash title="Response"
[
	{
		"id": "person:100",
		"name": "Tobie",
		"company": "SurrealDB",
		"skills": ["Rust", "Go", "JavaScript"]
	}
]
```

Alternatively, you can specify the record data using the `CONTENT` keyword.

```surql
-- Create a new record with a numeric id
CREATE person:100 CONTENT {
	name: 'Tobie',
	company: 'SurrealDB',
	skills: ['Rust', 'Go', 'JavaScript'],
};
```

## Clasues and Options

Using the `ONLY` keyword, just an object for the record in question will be returned. This, instead of an array with a single object.

```surql
-- Create just a single record
CREATE ONLY person:tobie SET name = 'Tobie', company = 'SurrealDB', skills = ['Rust', 'Go', 'JavaScript'];
```
### Return Values

By default, the create statement returns the record value once the changes have been made. To change the return value of each record, specify a `RETURN` clause, specifying either `NONE`, `BEFORE`, `AFTER`, `DIFF`, or a comma-separated list of specific fields to return.

```surql

> CREATE person:20 SET age = 46, username = "john-smith" RETURN NONE;

Reviewer: I've removed the number since it doesn't seem like it will make a difference if it's randomly generated 🤔 ?

Also just keeping in mind that using numbers as ids is not something we want to encourage since we don't have a good way of doing these typical auto increment of numbers like in relational dbs

Author: My thought here was  the reader will copy the example but I agree with this in mind no ID would make more sense plus we don't want number identifies.

```

```surql
-- Return the changeset diff
CREATE person:21 SET age = 46, username = "john-smith" RETURN DIFF;
```

```surql
-- Return the record before changes were applied
CREATE person:22 SET age = 46, username = "john-smith" RETURN BEFORE;
```

```surql
-- Return the record after changes were applied (the default) if any.
CREATE person:23 SET age = 46, username = "john-smith" RETURN AFTER;
```

```surql
-- Return a specific field only from the updated records
CREATE person:24 SET age = 46, username = "john-smith", interests = ['skiing', 'music'] RETURN interests;
```

### Timeout

> The `TIMEOUT` clause can be used to specify the maximum time the statement should take to execute. This is useful when you want to limit the time a statement takes to execute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `TIMEOUT` clause can be used to specify the maximum time the statement should take to execute. This is useful when you want more control. Such as controlling compute costs or making sure queries succeed or fail within tight latency boundaries to not have a big query queue forming.
```

The value for `TIMEOUT` is specified in Second or milliseconds.

```surql
CREATE person:25 SET age = 46, username = "john-smith" TIMEOUT 1000ms;
```

### Parallel

> The `PARALLEL` keyword can be used to specify that the statement should be executed in parallel. This is useful when you want to execute a statement in parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `PARALLEL` keyword can be used to specify that the statement should be executed in parallel. Similar to the `TIMEOUT` clause this is useful for more control over how your queries should behave, if that is needed.
```

```surql
CREATE person:26, CREATE person:27 PARALLEL; 
```

## Learn more 

To learn more about SurrealDB, check out the following resources: 
- [Getting started guide](/docs/surrealdb/introduction/start)
- [Select statement](/docs/surrealdb/surrealql/statements/select)
- [Update statement](/docs/surrealdb/surrealql/statements/update)

> - [Insert statement](/docs/surrealdb/surrealql/statements/insert)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Insert statement](/docs/surrealdb/surrealql/statements/insert)
- [Delete statement](/docs/surrealdb/surrealql/statements/delete)
```

- [Relate statement](/docs/surrealdb/surrealql/statements/relate)

> 

Reviewer: You basically have all the CRUD there, but not `delete` or record links. Is that intentional?

Author: Ah! Added that one. Need to add some logic for recommending related sections
